This is a dirt simple review of python libraries (math, statistics, random). More to the point, it's also a quick overview for a rank beginner of how to actually commit things to Git. Yes...that's right...truley clueless, but intrigued to learn how not only to use GitHub, define a desktop and cloud repository but to eventually enter into a collaborative coding project. 

In the meantime, really loved the review of the python statistics library. Literally, haven't thought meaningfully about statistics in 40 years (or ever?). But, this little review of the module was delightful and instigated a review of:

1) The difference between covariance and correlation. It seems that beyond simply measuring the relationship between two variables...correlation also seems to measure the strength (whereas covariance measures whether they're just related linearly (or directionally). Hmm. Ok, then why would you ever use covariance vs. correlation? My next light weight search indicated that covariance shows how two variables are different vs. correlation shows how they're related. Yeah but... finally happened uon https://stats.stackexchange.com/questions/139476/why-is-pure-sample-covariance-a-bad-metric-to-understand-the-degree-of-correlati#:~:text=One%20of%20the%20reasons%20covariance,and%20b%20be%20real%20numbers...and they seemed to have nice overview... 

2) My next question was what's the difference between geometric mean vs. arithmetic mean. Yikes...the statics module really was a whole lesson in itself...I'm sure we covered this 40 years ago when I was in high school...but really didn't get the impact at the time. Ok, geometric mean wins out here because it takes in account compounding that occurs over time... They're calculated differently...suffice to say, if you're using data that has any internal compounding, decaying, growth going on (say finance or even biology)...geometric might be the way to go.  

3) One of my next projects really should be a deeper dive into regressions. I'm embarrassed to say, I only really learned about simple linear regression. Self satisfied with that, I never even had the curiousity to take that concept further and didn't realize that there is multiple linear regression, ordinal regression, logistic regression, multinomial logistic regression. Just quickly...multiple linear regression can have  more than one independent variable and more than one dependent variable...pretty cool if you're just trying to understand the correlation between a lot of different related data sets...Just thinking out loud it might be interesting to see correlations in XC country (independent variables: runners age, gender; dependent variables: elevation of race course, dates of races, race times)....or something like that. Energy use statistics: independent variables: household size, zip code, mean age of household/ dependent variables: household energy usage.

4) Logistic regression. Is predicting a binary outcome using previous data. So voting is a heavily cited example. But also vaccination choices, purchasing decisions, relationship/health decisions.

5) Whoa! Ordinal regression is just so cool... so just simply it's regression analysis that uses the order of something as opposed to it's value. In other words if you have a given data set and the values are really random (i.e. people rate things on a scale of 1 to 10 and Tea's 10 is really different than Akisha's 9) then you can use ordinal regression...

6) And multinomial logistic regression.....When I first read about this, I really cringed...but the truth is this is really at the heart of meaningful regression. They all have a binary outcome  (dependent variable) i.e. who will someone vote for, what major will a student choose, will a person survive a surgery, and have really unrelated both in scale and weight independent variables i.e. demographic of person, age of person, hobbies, etc.

Ok, after this super exciting "read me"...which was torterously long and really the direct result of being excited that wonderful software programmers have already created easily accessible modules/libraries the next thing I need to do is become a better data wrangler...


